VAMPIRE GIRL

Impaler - Deal the most damage to foes up front.
Vampire Lord - Make the most use of vampiric abilities for maximum survivability, with enhanced magic.
Nightstalker - Use stealth and magic to maximum effect to catch foes off-guard.

CYCLOPS GIRL

Cyclops Witch - Gain powerful mesmerising magical ability at the expense of defense.
Soul Guardian - Enhance teamwork and healing-related magic at the expense of defense.
Cyclops Brute - Gain great defense and survivability.

SLIME GIRL

Green Slime - Gain powerful anti-armor abilities.
Blue Slime - Gain powerful anti-magic abilities as well as limited spellcasting ability.
Silver Slime - Gain great defense and survivability. Much faster than other slimes and can regenerate health.

CENTAUR GIRL

Centaur Archer - Gain great prowess with ranged attacks and speed.
Cherbi - Enhance teamwork ability for maximum effect.
Baghatur - Enhance melee damage greatly and become a master in arms.

HARPY GIRL

Mesmeriser - Gain powerful mesmerising ability and magic.
Darter - Gain great speed and become nearly untouchable, at the expense of offense and defense.
Sky Mistress - Gain great magic and support abilities.

HYDRA GIRL

Deepspawn - Gain eldritch magic at the expense of speedy health regeneration. This also improves the hydra's elemental weaknesses.
Sea Dragon - Gain impressive survivability in the form of improved regeneration and greater amounts of health.
Serpentine Beast - Gain impressive speed and enhanced elemental abilities.

SCORPION GIRL

Priestess - Gain powerful healing magic and support abilities.
Archmage - Gain powerful offensive and mesmerising magic.
Cloaker - Gain enhanced stealth and combat abilities, with magic supporting these capacities. Speed is greatly increased and Scorpion Girl no longer takes penalties when fighting with multiple weapons.

MUSHROOM GIRL

Sporevector - Gain powerful debuffs to infect the enemy with, as well as powerful buffs to give your team.
Assimilator - Take control of the enemy's health, magic, and mind with enhanced special abilities.
Naturalist - Gain powerful buffs for your team and healing abilities. Comes with increased defense against magic.

OCTOPUS GIRL

Brawler - Gain great offensive and defensive capability.
Assassin - Gain great stealth and speed ability.
Spellbane - Gain antimagic and countermagic ability alongside increased offense.

ZOMBIE GIRL

Jiangshi - Gain increased defense against magic and lifesteal, becoming the bane of spellcasters everywhere.
Frankenstein - Greatly increase defense and survivability.
Voodoo Master - Gain powerful offensive magic and defense, but become weak to magic. Specializes in debuffs and curses.

LUCIEL

Beacon - Invoke the ancient power of the light, gaining healing ability and powerful buffs for your team.
Lucid Anomalist - Gain eldritch magic and great stat bonuses, but become extremely vulnerable to dark-based magic.
Colormeister - Become a well-rounded magician with a specialty in illusion and mesmerizing magic, with all-around good stats and few weaknesses.

GARGOYLE GIRL

Trickster - Use disguise and stealth abilities to maximum affect to catch foes off-guard.
Kapoacinth - Gain increased magic defense and water-based abilities.
Four-Armed Gargoyle - Eschew stealth for greatly increased physical defense and dexterity with multiple weapons.

MINOTAUR GIRL

Brute - Maximize physical damage output but become vulnerable to magic.
Tank - Maximize physical and magical defense, although damage may be lacking.
Navigator - Never be caught off guard and gain great divination abilities and bonuses in combat