Q: Release date?
A: Let's not jump to conclusions.

Q: Could there be more developers to this game? Maybe another artist or composer?
A: I won't rule that out.

Q: Where are all the sexy otome monster guys?
A: They exist somewhere, but the monster girls are the focus of this story.

Q: Does this game have a website?
A: Nyet.

Q: You have Octopus Girl, Scorpion Girl, Mushroom Girl, etc but no Spider Girl, Plant Girl, Lamia/Naga Girl, etc what gives?
A: With a limited pool of characters to work from, I wanted to include uncommon types of monster girls as opposed to the more generic kinds you're likely to see in works featuring monster girls, like spider girls.
That said, I will not rule out the possibility of releasing those characters above as DLC. In my original designs, there was going to be a Witch Girl, Spider Girl, Plant Girl, Naga Girl or Medusa Girl, Giant Girl, and Bee Girl or Wasp Girl or Ant Girl.

Q: Why do the monster girls have generic names?
A: I'm not good with names ^^;
Coming up with a good name is about as difficult as coming up with a cool design for a character; you're often suffering a case of Writer's Block when thinking of a meaningful name to give a character, although I wouldn't rule out the possibility of real names for these characters in the future. Consider their current generic names as tentative names.

Q: Who is Octopus Girl and why is she everywhere?
A: Due to her rather simple design and interesting circumstances, I more-or-less consider her the mascot of Monsters VS Monster Girls so far, thus she is my Twitter icon.

Q: What is Luciel saying?
A: The key is the patterns and pauses between the light sequences being emitted. Each lantern encodes a word in her sentence. And if all else fails, Luciel at least understands a good handshake!

Q: Any furry?
A: Invalid input.

Q: I found your stolen art which somebody is claiming to be theirs! What will you do?
A: Eh, I've never really been a big fan of intellectual property anyways.

Q: How do I run <insert file name here>?
A: Wait til the full release so you can play the game!

Q: When will I get to playtest the game?
A: Whenever it's ready.

Q: Your art is bad, the music is terrible, the plotline boring, the characters cliched, etc etc
A: Why, thank you for your feedback! <3